# Let's Build Your Product<span class="dot">.</span>

Hello, my name is Benjamin Zalasky. Do you have an idea for an app, yet don't
know how to build it on your own? Rockhopper Digital is a **digital product
consultancy** that solves problems like this with design and technology.

Over the last eight years, I've helped my clients design, build and market
**software products** and **e-commerce businesses** with uncompromising
craftsmanship. Now, I'd like to teach you how to design and build a product that
provides value to paying customers.

## Write a story about a problem<span class="dot">.</span>

Why should anyone care about your product? Unless you’re able to tell a story
about how your product solves a problem that matters, it’s going to be a hard
sell. While this narrative is foundational, it shouldn’t be unchanging. This is
how you’ll frame early conversations with potential customers, and set the
context for why your product matters. But how do you tell an engaging story
about a problem? Start with a question.

Questions are one of the best tools for avoiding unwarranted assumptions. Paul
Graham suggests:

  > The initial idea is just a starting point–not a blueprint, but a question.

A fresh perspective is invaluable when entering a domain that's ripe for
disruption. However, failure to recognize your own innate biases can limit your
ability to innovate. From your target market, to the problem your product
solves, don't limit yourself with assumptions unless you've a compelling reason.
There are times when assumptions are unavoidable, but that's ok as long as you
recognize them.

## Develop a customer hypothesis<span class="dot">.</span>

Great products deliver great outcomes. They're consistently indispensable. To
get here, you need to understand the relationships between your potential
customers, the problem you're solving, the solution you're introducing, and your
ability to deliver that solution to market.

The simplest way to develop a customer hypothesis is to spell out why a specific
problem matters to a specific type of customer. Your first customer hypothesis
should build on the story you've written about a problem. It also needs to be
testable. We do this to facilitate inquiry; to provide a starting point for
gathering insights from real customers. Ultimately, our goal is to develop a
working hypothesis about what a successful outcome looks like to inform our
product development. 

That said, customer development doesn't always segue neatly into product
development. By taking the time to anchor your solution to a problem that a real
customer is dealing with, you'll avoid assuming needless risk.



## Gather insights from real customers<span class="dot">.</span>

Idiosyncratic belief and passion are often at the heart of brilliance. They are
also barriers that can feed your own echo chamber. Don't fall victim to this.
External perspectives lend insight into the alignment of your product in the
marketplace, balancing raw, creative effort with instructive guidance. However,
time spent reflecting alone on your discussions with others shouldn't be
discounted.

## Develop a product hypothesis<span class="dot">.</span>

## Sketch within a design system<span class="dot">.</span>

## Iterate on rapid prototypes<span class="dot">.</span>

## Launch and learn<span class="dot">.</span>

Talk is cheap in all forms. This goes beyond just put up or shut up. As Edward
O. Wilson paraphrases Francis Bacon's idols of the marketplace in
<em>Consilience: The Unity of Knowledge</em>:
  
  > [Don't] let the power of mere words induce belief in non-existent things.

Just as talking about your product won't get you to launch, someone telling you
a market exists doesn't mean it actually does. Take steps to empirically
validate any assumptions you've made about your product and its place in the
world. 
