+++
date = "2017-09-03T21:29:15-04:00"
lede = "The right approach for your project depends on your goals and constraints."
subtitle = "How I design and build products."
title = "Methods"
+++

<h2>Explore</h2>

When I start a new project, I explore its domain with both a user focus and a
market focus. What are the problems and processes that define your product? What
trends are shaping the boundaries of its domain? My primary goal during this
phase is to discover questions that cut through assumptions, expose and analyze
risk, and most importantly, reveal your project's actual requirements and
constraints.

<h2>Design</h2>

Content and data are fundamental to my design process. Before pixels hit the
screen, the concepts, systems and processes that underlie the project need to be
captured and translated into user stories and design problems. Copy needs to be
written. Data dependencies need to be documented. Tradeoffs need to be
discovered and prioritized.

After all that, I'll sketch out ideas within a design system, progressing from
an abstract catalog of base elements towards concrete layouts, components and
features.

<h2>Build</h2>

Designs and specifications aren't infallible. They frequently require changes
during the course development. Identifying all functional and nonfunctional
requirements before development begins is nearly impossible. Because of this, my
approach to building software products is adaptive.

Starting with a narrow slice of the specification, I build a working application
that satisfies that subset of requirements. As the product is built, its
requirements are extended and changed as needed, adapting to unforeseen
constraints and opportunities.

<h2>Iterate</h2>

Software is never finished, but projects end. They're measured against business
goals and user expectations. Deliverables, dates and budgets. The tail end of a
project is an ideal time to empirically validate any assumptions we've made
about your product and its place in the world. Experience gained during the
design and development phases of the project, and insights gleaned from
customers in the field, should inform future efforts. See the world as it is,
and ask a smarter question.
 

